The code asks whether the user is an admin or user and use a while loop for mistakes. Has a while loop for both. Inside the user while loop, Code creates the categories, products, and price, with arrays then uses for loops to assign random stock for each item into an arraylist. That is repeated for each category. It then creates the variables and arraylist necessary for the cart.
Uses a nested while loop that continues as long as the user doesn’t end the program. It has a nested for each loop for the category names, and asks for which category the user wants and uses while loops for mistakes. The uses another while loop as long as not buying or ending the code. It has a nested switch case for each individual category, categories (searching for them), cart, and purchasing.
In each individual category, it uses a nested for each loop that prints out the #, product, price, and has an nested if else for stock in case stock = 0. The code asks user to either purchase an item, browse other categories, head to cart, or end code and uses while loop for mistakes. It uses a nested while loop within purchasing within a category. The code asks for the number of the item and uses a nested while loop for mistakes, checking stock availability. Then it asks for the stock you want purchase, it uses a while loop and an nested if else statement to check the new stock is more than what is available or less than 0 to ask for new stock. It asks for confirmation of whether you want to add to cart, change the amount, or cancel the purchase, it uses a while loop for mistakes. It uses a while loop if you want to change the stock, it asks for the new stock, and uses a nested while loop to check the stock for availability and nested if else statement to ask again if not available. Then asks again whether they want to add to cart, change stock, or cancel purchase and uses a while loop for mistakes. It uses an if statement to cancel the purchase, it uses a nested for each loop to show the #, product,price, and an nested if else statement for stock in case stock = 0. The code asks user to either purchase an item, browse other categories, head to cart, or end code and use a while loop for mistakes. Uses an if statement to add to cart. has an nested if else loop if the cart contains the item already, if yes, update the arraylist of cart stock of item, cart total of item, & product stock, if no, update arraylists of product stock, add to arraylist of cart, cart price, cart stock, cart total. Uses a for loop to show the cart (#, item, price, stock, and item total & sums up the total), print sum of total. Then uses a for each loop to show products (#, product, price, and nested if else for stock in case stock = 0). Then asks the user to either purchase more, browse other categories, head to cart, or end code and use a while loop for mistakes. Then outside that it has a break to stop the code from running.
In the case Categories, it uses a nested for loop to print out the categories, and asks the user to enter a category and uses a while loop for mistakes. Then outside that it has a break to stop the case from running.
In the case Cart, it has a nested if statement for no items in the cart, then asks to browse categories or end code and uses a while loop for mistakes. Has a break inside to stop the code from running. Shows cart with a for loop when if statement not triggered, Uses a for loop to show the cart (#, item, price, stock, and item total & sums up the total), print sum of total. Then ask the user to buy, change stock, remove items, browse categories, or end code and use a while loop for mistakes.
It uses a while loop if changing stock, The code asks for the number of the item and uses a nested while loop for mistakes and then asks if -, + or cancel change and uses a while loop for mistakes.
Uses a if else if else if statement when - +, or Cancel, if - asks for the stock you want removed, and uses a nested while loop and an nested if else loop to check if the new stock is more than what is available in the cart or less than 0 & ask for new stock. Then uses and if else if having less stock means having no item left in the cart, if no, update the arraylist of cart stock, cart total, and uses a nested for loop to search within each array of products, to see if item being updated is equal to the item in the products, it has a nested if statement to update the arraylist of product stock it the items are equal and has a break inside to stop the code from running. If yes remove from arraylist of cart, cart price, cart stock, and cart total. It has an if else statement if cart is empty, if yes, asks to browse categories or end code and uses a while loop for mistakes. Has a break inside to stop the code from running. If no, Shows cart with a nested for loop when if statement not triggered, Uses a for loop to show the cart (#, item, price, stock, and item total & sums up the total), print sum of total. Then ask the user to buy, change stock, remove items, browse categories, or end code and use a while loop for mistakes.
Else if +, ask for stock you want more of, creates a counter, has a nested for loop for each array of products, that checks if item is equal to item in array, has a nested if statement if true, and a nested while loop to check the stock, and nested if else to make sure the stock doesn’t exceed what is in the array or less than 0 and ask for new stock, then updates the product stock in the array, updated the counter, and has a break to end the loop once stock updated. Inside an if if statement checks that the counter hasn’t been updated meaning the products didn’t exist in the array above and perform the same search. Now it updates the arraylist  of cart stock and cart total, and uses a for loop to show the cart (#, item, price, stock, and item total & sums up the total), print sum of total. Then ask the user to buy, change stock, remove items, browse categories, or end code and use a while loop for mistakes.
Else if cancel, asks the user to buy, change stock, remove items, browse categories, or end code and use a while loop for mistakes.
Has a while loop for remove that asks for the # of the item to remove and uses a nest while loop for mistakes, creates a counter, has a nested for loop for each array of products, that checks if item is equal to item in array, has a nested if statement if true, and a nested while loop to check the stock, and nested if else to make sure the stock doesn’t exceed what is in the array or less than 0 and ask for new stock, then updates the product stock in the array, updated the counter, and has a break to end the loop once stock updated. Inside an if if statement checks that the counter hasn’t been updated meaning the products didn’t exist in the array above and perform the same search. Then it removes the item from arraylist of cart, cart price, cart stock, and cart total. It has an if else statement if cart is empty, if yes, asks to browse categories or end code and uses a while loop for mistakes. Has a break inside to stop the code from running. If no, Shows cart with a nested for loop when if statement not triggered, Uses a for loop to show the cart (#, item, price, stock, and item total & sums up the total), print sum of total. Then ask the user to buy, change stock, remove items, browse categories, or end code and use a while loop for mistakes. Then it has a break to end the case from running.
In case buy, it has a nested for loop to for loop to show the invoice (#, item, price, stock, and item total & sums up the total), print sum of total. Then asks the user to place order, browse categories, or end experience  and uses a while loop for mistakes. Uses a if statement to place order, uses a for loop to remove all items from arraylists cart, cart price, cart stock, cart total. Then thanks user for ordering, and asks to continue from top or end experience and uses a while loop for mistakes. Has a break to end the case from running.
In the while loop for admin. Asks for password and uses a nested while loop for mistakes. Has a while loop to show the menu of orders, asks for # of order and uses a while loop for mistakes, it has a if else loop if order shipped yet, if no, and has a nested if statement for order, uses a nested for each loop to show the order. Then asks admin to ship, return to menu or end experience, and uses a while loop t for mistakes. It uses a if statement for ship, updates a counter, confirms that orders are shipped, and asks admin to return to menu, or end experience. If yes, confirms that orders are shipped, and asks admin to return to menu, or end experience. At the end print out goodbye messages and close the program.
